Purdue University
Purdue University (Purdue) is a land-grant, public university in West Lafayette, Indiana,
United States. Purdue was founded in 1869 when the Indiana General Assembly, taking
advantage of the Morrill Act, which offered public lands to any state that would establish
a college for teaching agriculture and mechanics, accepted a donation of land and money
from Lafayette businessman John Purdue. Today, Purdue is the largest university in
Indiana in terms of student enrollment and is the flagship campus of the Purdue
University System.

Academically, Purdue is noted for its engineering, agriculture, pharmacy, and
management schools[1][2], and particularly for its aeronautical/astronautical engineering
program, which is one of the most elite in the United States.[3] The university also boasts
a very prestigious aviation school, ranked 1st in the nation, and noted for being the first
of its kind in the country.[4] Twenty-two American astronauts are graduates of Purdue
University, including the first person to walk on the moon, Neil Armstrong, and the last,
Eugene Cernan, giving rise to Purdue's nickname, Cradle of Astronauts.[4] Purdue
enrolls the largest international student population of any public university in the United
States

History
On July 2, 1862, President Lincoln signed the Morrill Act into law, which offered public
lands to any state that would establish and maintain a college for the purpose of teaching
agriculture and mechanics. In 1865, the Indiana General Assembly took advantage of this
offer, and began plans to establish such an institution. After being denied a professorship
at Indiana University, John Purdue, a Lafayette business leader and philanthropist (buried
at Purdue), sought to help establish a secondary college in the state of Indiana. The state
of Indiana received a gift of $150,000 from John Purdue, along with $50,000 from
Tippecanoe County, and 150 acres (0.6 km²) of land from Lafayette residents in support
of the project. On May 6, 1869, it was decided that the college would be founded near the
city of Lafayette and legislators established the institution as Purdue University, in the
name of the institution’s principal benefactor.
Classes first began at Purdue on September 16, 1874 with three buildings, six instructors,
and 39 students. Purdue issued its first degree, a Bachelor of Science in chemistry, in
1875. The first female students were admitted to the university in the fall of the same
year. By 1883 enrollment had increased beyond 350, and by the turn of the 20th century
Purdue had begun a period of active expansion: scholarship standards were raised,
courses were expanded, and equipment was improved.



School songs
The official fight song of Purdue University, "Hail Purdue!," was composed in 1912 by
alumni Edward Wotawa (music) and James Morrison (lyrics) as the "Purdue War Song."
"Hail Purdue" was copyrighted in 1913 and dedicated to the Varsity Glee Club. The
lyrics of the first verse & refrain are:
Verse 1
To your call once more we rally
Alma Mater hear our praise
Where the Wabash spreads its valley
Filled with joy our voices raise
From the sky in swelling echoes
Comes the cheers that tell the tale
Of your vict'ries and your heroes
Hail Purdue! We sing all hail!

Refrain
Hail, hail to old Purdue!
All hail to our old gold and black!
Hail, hail to old Purdue!
Our friendship may she never lack,
Ever grateful ever true,
Thus we raise our song anew,
Of the days we've spent with you,
All hail our own Purdue.
In 1993 the Purdue Board of Trustees approved the "Purdue Hymn" as the official alma
mater of the university. The lyrics and music were written by Alfred Kirchhoff in 1941.
The University Choir first performed the hymn in 1943, during convocation in the
Edward C. Elliott Hall of Music. The lyrics are as follows:
Close by the Wabash in famed Hoosier land
Stands old Purdue, serene and grand.
Cherished in memory by all
Her sons and daughters true,
Fair alma mater,
All hail Purdue! Fairest in all the land,
Our own Purdue!
Fairest in all the land, our own Purdue!